computer is an incredibly powerful means
of creative expression but for the most
part that expression is confined to the
screens of our laptops and mobile phones
and I'd like to tell you a story about
bringing this power of the computer to
move things around and interact with us
off of the screen and into the physical
world in which we live a few years ago I
got a call from a luxury fashion store
called Barneys New York and the next
thing I knew I was designing storefront
kinetic sculptures for their window
displays this one's called the chase
there are two pairs of shoes a man's
pair and a woman's parent and they play
out this slow tense chase around the
window in which the man scoots up behind
the woman and gets in her personal space
and then she moves away each of the
shoes has magnets in it and they're
magnets underneath the table that move
the shoes around my friend Annie Cabbot
Horta was building a robotic harp for
Bjork's biophilia tour and I wound up
building the electronics and motion
control software to make the harps move
and play music the harp has four
separate pendulums and each pendulum has
11 strings so the harp swings on its
axis and also rotates in order to play
different musical notes and the harps
are all networks together so that they
can play the right notes at the right
time in the music I built an interactive
chemistry exhibit at the Museum of
Science and Industry in Chicago and this
exhibit lets people use physical objects
to grab chemical elements off of the
periodic table and bring them together
to cause chemical reactions to happen
and the museum noticed that people were
spending a lot of time with this exhibit
and a researcher from a science
education center in Australia I decided
to study this exhibit and try to figure
out what was going on and she found that
the physical objects that people were
using were helping people understand how
to use the exhibit and we're helping
people learn in a social way and when
you think about it this makes a lot of
sense that using specialized physical
objects would help people use
interface more easily I mean our hands
and our minds are optimized to think
about and interact with tangible objects
think about which you find easier to use
a physical keyboard or an onscreen
keyboard like on a phone but the thing
that struck me about all of these
different projects is that they really
had to be built from scratch down to the
level of the electronics and the printed
circuit boards and all the mechanisms
all the way up to the software I wanted
to create something where we could move
objects under computer control and
create interactions around that idea
without having to go through this
process of building something from
scratch every single time so my first
attempt at this was at the MIT Media Lab
with Professor Hiroshi Ishii and we
built this array of five hundred and
twelve different electromagnets and
together they were able to move objects
around on top of their surface but the
problem with this was that these magnets
cost over $10,000 although each one was
pretty small altogether they weighed so
much that the table that they were on
started to sag so I wanted to build
something where he could have this kind
of interaction on any tabletop surface
so to explore this idea I built an army
of small robots and each of these robots
has what are called Omni wheels there
are these special wheels that can move
equally easily in all directions and
when you couple these robots with a
video projector you have these physical
tools for interacting with digital
information so here's an example of what
I mean this is a video editing
application where all of the controls
for manipulating the video are physical
so if we want to tweak the color we just
enter the color mode and then we get
three different dials for tweaking the
color or if we want to adjust the audio
then we get two different dials for that
these physical objects so here the left
and right channels stay in sync but if
we want to we can override that by
grabbing both of them at the same time
so the idea is that we get this speed
and efficiency benefits of using these
physical dials together with the
flexibility and versatility of a system
that's designed in software and this is
a mapping application for disaster
response so you have these physical
objects that represent
Fire and Rescue and a dispatcher can
grab them and place them on the map to
tell those units where to go and then
the position of the units on the map
gets synced up with the position of
those units in the real world this is a
video chat application it's amazing how
much of motion you can convey with just
a few simple movements of a physical
objects with this interface we open up a
huge array of possibilities in between
traditional board games and arcade games
where the physical possibilities of
interaction make so many different
styles of play possible but one of the
areas that I'm most excited about using
this platform form is applying it to
problems that are difficult for
computers or people to solve alone one
example of those is protein folding so
here we have an interface where we have
physical handles onto a protein and we
can grab those handles and try to move
the protein and try to fold it in
different ways and if we move it in a
way that doesn't really make sense with
the underlying molecular simulation we
get this physical feedback where we can
actually feel these physical handles
pulling back against us so feeling
what's going on inside a molecular
simulation is a whole different level of
interaction so we're just beginning to
explore what's possible when we use
software to control the movement of
objects in our environment maybe this is
the computer of the future
there's no touchscreen there's no
technology visible at all but when we
want to have a video chat or play a game
or lay out the slides to our next TED
talk the objects on the table come alive
thank you
[Applause]